
# problems identified with the current version
  * construction is mostly about design
  * defect management doesn't really exist. there are a number of pointers scattered around the model.
 

Should we add a 5th business function between construction aqnd Verification which would deal with:
  * Code build 
  * Code management


Brainstorming session around the 5th business function:
  * Add an Implementation function.
  * the original idea behind business functions was that they aligned reasonably well with team responsibilities.
    * the trend with agile is that construction verification and operations merge into 1 team
  * do we even need the business functions any more? they categorise things nicely but many people look directly at the activities.
    * the tiered-structure is nice and avoids having lots of activities directly.
  
## Misc thoughts
  * Are there other things missing from the model which could be included in yet another business function
  * verification should also include ensuring the security requirements are correct (not testing that security requirements have been performed)
  * there is implementaiton review but no implementation
  * there was  a discussion about whether software protection should be included. It's probably spread across the various practices. To be fleshed out further.


# security practices
brainstormed missing activities related to the following practices. we'll have to see whether they fit in, in which practices and how maturity levels are affected.

what practices is the common model missing?
  * build
    * repo security
    * securing artefacts
    * reproducible builds
    * dependency managemnet

  * deploy
    * software integrity
    * config management
    * secret management

  * defect management
    * pre/post production
      * having post production defect management requires redoing the current issue management 

There will also be a likely update to operations to handle infrastructure updates.

should privacy be added?
  * probably not as a practice or function in itself, it permeates many others.


  

